everything in Japan has meat in it that
is the first sentence of an essay of
sorts I'm gonna read out here written by
a guy named Tim Rogers in 2010 I want to
give a shout out to a guy named Haruki
who has a channel here on YouTube called
sustainable vegan it's one of the very
few channels on YouTube that I can say
has fewer viewers that I do he's talking
about veganism in Japanese and in
English anything in German these
Japanese guy now living in Germany but
he makes he makes videos talking about
veganism in all three languages and
reflecting all three places I found this
essay complaining about how awful it is
to be vegetarian or vegan in Japan
almost at random I mean one of the kind
of strange and wonderful things about
the Google connected universe is that
you search for something you search for
six different words and then you stumble
on some of this so I ended up finding
this essay because it contains the word
vegan and a couple of other words that I
was searching for at the time and I'm
really glad I did find it now I'm coming
back to Haruki at sustainable vegan I
found his YouTube channel and I wrote to
him I sent him an email and he he's
actually written an e-book on being
vegan in Japan and I bought it I forgot
I think $5 is very reasonable price for
a low price but I thought to myself
before I bought this ebook about how to
be vegan in Japan how to cope with being
vegan in Japan I thought well I hope
this book doesn't just confirm what I
already know that it's pretty much a
matter of surviving on getting onigiri
at 7-eleven and the bad news is about
the book I read it and it confirms
you'll pretty much surviving on getting
onigiri at 7-eleven
I've lived in quite a number of
different cultures if you click through
my videos here on YouTube you will see
some reflections on what it's like to be
vegetarian or vegan in these different
cultures possibly the worst culture of
lived in a tree was France although I've
lived in different cultures in Asia one
of the weird and terrible things about
Japan
is that it is right next door to Taiwan
and Taiwan maybe has the strongest
culture for veganism in the world in
Taiwan if you go into a 7-eleven there
is a serious selection of packaged vegan
food frozen food whatever and it is
marked as vegan explicitly and there are
government guidelines that define
veganism at the factory where they make
that food the vegan food cannot be on
the same conveyor belt as any meat or
dairy containing food which is a little
bit insane but hey I obviously it's
nicer to live in a country where the
regulations are too strict rather than a
country that where the regulations don't
exist in general Taiwan has responded to
its I don't know challenges of modernity
and its cultural legacy of Buddhism and
miscellaneous Chinese traditional
religions by really forming a
tremendously vibrant vegan subculture
now unfortunate I want also has an
incredibly vibrant meat-eating majority
culture mmm let's not digress too much
here and my points is not by the way
that you should judge a country but what
you should get what you can get at
7-eleven but that is symptomatic
7-eleven is not a good place to get food
as a vegan it's not a great place but
the fact that you can get Taiwanese
vegan food everywhere that in Taiwan you
can get a vegan option even at a
7-eleven even at a gas station even at
these places reflects the extent to
which that whole island that whole
culture in that country has really
accommodated vegans as a significant
voice and I have met and spoken with
vegan guys in Taiwan who were in the
army and they told me that you can be
vegan in the Taiwanese army which I
still find hard to believe but they say
it so I gotta believe it
alright Japan is right next door to
Taiwan guess what Japan is respond to
modernity and the legacy effects of
Buddhists and animus Tara touch in a
totally different way and Japan is too
old reports one of the worst and one of
the hardest places to be vegan anywhere
in the world
I'm going to provide a link to the
original essay by Tim Rodgers I have
exerted the text that I'm interested in
here I'm not reading the whole essay the
essay has other complaints about while
living in Japan is so hard just fine you
can read it all if you want to and also
I've omitted some of the digressions
that kind of only make sense when you
read them on the page and wouldn't make
sense to read them out loud so some
minor minor revisions of this article
everything in Japan has meat in it
potato chips pretty much always have
beef or pork extract in them
I've watched ingredient labels with
perverse interest over the years
something caught my eye while looking
over the white bread ingredient labels
one day or two or three years ago about
half of the makers of white bread
include lard as an ingredient this is a
thing that I know happens in white bread
in other countries however since phrases
like lard ass and tub of lard
successfully penetrated the deepest
levels of the collective modern
english-speaking human consciousness
food companies all over the place are
avoiding the words of parents on their
ingredient labels mini bread makers
substitute oils butters or God help us
margarine well I can now curiously
report that on a recent trip to a
supermarket I couldn't find a single
loaf of white bread that didn't have
lard it so what he says is true here in
the old days in a country like Canada
bread biscuits like old-fashioned
British style cookies like a ginger
cookie
they all had lard in them you you really
have to talk to your grandparents your
great-grandparents to remember those
days here because that has gone out of
style in a huge way but as I've been
mentioning the importance of Buddhism in
the religious heritage of Japan and
Taiwan keep in mind he's not mentioning
the other big reason why Lord
lard I'm not used to pronouncing the
word duh doesn't come up often
conversation me the other reason why
lard disappeared from those ingredient
labels was because of the Jewish
minority and the Muslim minority in
these countries that did not want to see
dead pigs in those ingredient lists so
that's another case of a very
differently motivated form of minority
diet politics changing the world in some
small way anyway this guy in Japan
couldn't find a single loaf of white
bread that did not have lard in it
um J pan obviously does not have a
history of having Jewish and Muslim
minorities trying to campaign to get rid
of those ingredients in Taiwan and
elsewhere I mean bread itself is still
kind of regarded as a foreign food and
look obviously you can have a digression
here about bread made with rice flour
and different kinds of local buns but
like you know they do regard a loaf of
bread basically as a European invention
and import and yeah depressingly in
taiwan too most of the bread there had
had butter had milk powder in it they
want this fatty filmy quality to be in
their bread although in both Europe and
North America now we don't really do
that anymore that that went out of style
like 50 years ago plus all right back to
this essay here I could rattle off
curious examples for ours like how
unquote Indian curry powder
I liked happily advertised now with beef
extract on the cat the Japanese variety
of Bakos bacon flavored bits which are
completely vegan in America list pork
extract as the top ingredient in Japan
even though according to a foreign
friend brave enough to eat them
regularly they smell and taste exactly
like American Bakos
coincidentally a meat-free soup stock
once changed they're labeled who proudly
advertised now tastes more like crab and
had never tasted anything like crab I
checked the ingredients it now
definitely had crab in it you can see
where this is going
the absolute best example however
involves a riemann shop it used to go to
because they offered a vegetarian
friendly ramen servicing riemann ramen
llama and lo me my I mean this is not
really an English word and it's not
really a Jeff he's worked in this
context either ramen type of noodles the
vegetarian raymond was unique and
delicious
it was also distinctively lacking in
iridescent grease bubbles floating on
the surface of the soup I have a lot of
fun lately making up the weirdest fake
reasons for not eating meat my favorite
one is saying that I don't eat meat
because I wouldn't want to ingest an
animal weak or dumb enough to enter a
life of slavery under another species
therefore the only meat I would eat
would be that of an animal which a human
cannot kill digression obviously this
guy just speaks Japanese really well if
he can get across this kind of
sophisticated joke but hey this
explanation recently drew the serious
response well if you can't kill the
animal then you can't eat it
distant gently highlights another
problem I have with Japan that people
don't get sarcasm or irony anyway this
ramen shop caught the attention of some
Society of Japanese vegetarians they
have a little magazine which in Japan
means that it's a huge glossy printed on
cardboard affair costs around $20 and
comes with a free six hour DVD they
asked to have their little logo put on
the menu standing outside the ramen
shops so the few vegetarians would know
that this place was safe the vegetarian
people featured the ramen shop in their
magazine that's how I found out about it
not long after this happened the chain
coincidentally took off people really
loved their extra pork bone marrow ramen
the number of locations multiplied
eventually someone higher up in the
administration of the parent company was
right here in a checklist of things they
could do to make more money rather than
humbly ask the vegetarian magazine if it
was all right to remove the vegetarian
magazines logo they decided to humbly
apologize that the recipe a change and
the vegetarian ramens broth now included
poke pork bone marrow so they would have
to stop advertising it as safe for
vegetarians this topic applies to me
pretty directly so I've researched it on
and off over the years I have yet to
find a single not high class Chinese
restaurant in Tokyo that serves a single
vegetarian dish in China however nearly
half of everything is vegetarian that's
the half I eat so this pause here this
is also an interesting thing with
vegetarianism and veganism within Asia
is regarding it as foreign in this case
Japanese people thinking of
vegetarianism as something Chinese one
that comes from China in Thailand also
sadly they really think of vegetarianism
as Chinese as a Chinese import in
reality Thailand has its own reasonably
ancient tradition of vegetarianism that
is not surprising because Thailand is a
terrible Buddhist country so of course
they do Cambodia and Laos also have
their own indigenous traditions but it
is true that today in Bangkok or any big
city in Thailand almost all of the
commercialized vegetarian stuff is
Chinese in name Chinese in form it's
owned and operated by Chinese people and
the style of the food is Chinese and
there's good reason why somebody growing
up in Thailand today would just regard
vegetarianism as a foreign idea is
something that comes from China and
that's a disadvantage in a lot of ways
obviously if you think of vegetarian
food as an exotic foreign import you're
not thinking of it in ethical terms you
know you're not engaging with the
underlying issues in any meaningful way
that you might be
right also of course I don't know what
part of China he's talking about in some
areas of China it's really hard to find
vegetarian food in some areas it's
easier mmm this kind of regionalism
exists even within Taiwan Taiwan is a
tiny country but actually one city to
the next there are there big differences
in China meat is associated with wealth
and success a Chinese friend once told
me that Chinese restaurants in Japan
only serves dishes with meat in them as
some kind of subconscious celebration of
their finding success in a foreign land
once Japanese co-worker insisted on my
ordering some food at a company party I
was forced to attend pause being forced
to attend accompany parties this is one
of the many dangers of being an employee
in Japan
I'd excuse myself the day before the
party saying I'd only be able to sit in
for half an hour at the most a moving
truck was coming to my apartment that
very night it was a very real legitimate
excuse this guy explained to the
waitress in painstaking detail that we
needed a salad with no chicken no shrimp
and no to Nanette the waiters looked
over the little notepad in her hands
this salad it'll only have vegetables in
it would you like something with
substance the man thought for a second
bacon okay said the waitress and hurried
away a minute later I was going to get
up where are you going the guy asked
I've got to run I said I've just ordered
you a salad he replied the salad came
there it was with bacon oh I said I
can't eat this it has bacon in it you
don't like bacon it's meat no it's not
the man was being deadly gravely serious
we argued about it in the Politis tones
possible for maybe three minutes look
man I don't eat meat
I know what's meat and what's not meat
was my ultimate closing art his closing
argument in the Japanese tradition was
the same as mine only with one of the
words in the first sentence changed look
man I do eat meat I know what's meat and
what's not me
we ended with a little agree to disagree
thing we parted ways both knowing that
we were right only to this day I kind of
have the edge because I actually was
right